hey so look whoever you are seeing this
video maybe monkey Jones himself is
sitting around you know listen to this
monkey what you said in your video is
that the way you're gonna cope with your
high blood pressure is by staying at
home and playing video games that's what
got you into this situation the internet
is full of people telling you to do
things that are hard and making them
look easy
having a healthy diet is hard especially
if you're not used to it if you're
accustomed to eating Doritos and playing
video games that's a really hard
transition to make alright for me doing
200 push-ups is no big deal for my
girlfriend it's still literally
impossible and I have seen my girlfriend
go from not being able to lift a
10-pound barbell to gradually building
up her strength of the gym to what I
could boast as being normal human levels
and before we started dating she didn't
even know she had a problem she didn't
have a goal she wasn't she wasn't
thinking oh gee I can't do push-ups or I
can't do upright row or overhead press
she wasn't even aware of this right
there is this cat monkey Jones that says
YouTube for completely unrelated reasons
today to do with politics and internet
censorship and the future of free speech
in the modern Western world I've been
watching a couple his videos these last
40 hours and you know what there's
something a real sad so that really
honestly I'm making this video because
I'm upset I was just sitting now to get
some other worked on is I know I'm gonna
make this video he has high blood
pressure and it's not just a little bit
high in his words his doctor told him he
has the blood pressure of a geriatric
lifelong cigarette smoker who never got
any exercise his blood pressure is so
bad he could die of a heart attack when
he's still in his 20s all right
and it's no joke it's so easy for people
to dismiss health warnings by saying oh
but my uncle Lou used to drink alcohol
every week and it didn't do him any harm
well you don't hear about all the people
who are dead
from drinking alcohol they're not around
to complain and I do have people in my
own family who were popped off one way
or another by turning out just one
weekend of binge drinking just you know
a few drinks the wrong way and ya can be
something like you choke on your own
vomit or it can be that you crash your
car each and every serving of alcohol
causes brain damage each and every
cigarette you smoke is damaging your
lungs it's not that you roll the dice
and only find out later whether or not
you die of cancer
there are ways in which looking at it
from a certain perspective it's a game
of chance but from another perspective
it's 100% certain that you're damaging
your health with every drink of alcohol
with every cigarette you smoke and with
every non vegan meal you eat all right
my girlfriend today is not merely vegan
she is on the mcdougal diet and ye gods
it's gruesome to behold okay
I used to lovingly make her pancakes
every day and if you follow me on
Instagram you've seen the pancakes you
may not see the love some things are
left up to you left up to your
imagination we're gonna tell you I was
lovingly making her pancakes every day
this diet is so healthy
she can't even eat vegan pancakes
anymore it's an absurdly ridiculously
healthy diet maybe at some point in the
future she's gonna get to loosen up a
bit but she's trying to to cure manage a
bunch of health problems that caught up
with her and really brought her life to
a SAN
standstill in many ways
she's talked about that on her channel
you know whatever okay so monkey Jones
likewise has come to a crisis point in
his life in many ways including that he
got this crushing news delivered to him
about his blood pressure right there's a
difference between observational studies
and double-blind controlled laboratory
testing and dr. mcdougal has struggled
his whole life with the very real
hostility of the medical establishment
against his message and his message is
if you're on a strict vegan diet not
just any vegan diet but his specific
ludicrously healthy starch based vegan
diet yes so no chocolate bars chocolate
bars can be vegan you know no high-fat
foods at all basically mmm it's
ridiculous it's ridiculous but it gets
results if you get on his diet he's done
in controlled conditions he has people
come on these retreats it's not quite
locking them in a laboratory but he's
got these patients in a situation where
they can't just run down the hallway and
buy a chocolate bar when they want one
or something the people suffering from
high blood pressure their blood pressure
drops so calamitous Li so rapidly that
he takes them off their blood pressure
medication at the start of the trial and
every so often the patient subject they
say no look I'm under doctor's orders I
have to take this blood pressure
medication every day and he says to them
okay look I've now done this hundreds of
times before he's done it he has a track
record these studies keep piling up it's
okay so I've known this hundreds of
times before if you want to continue
taking your medication for high blood
pressure while you try this strict vegan
diet I have to keep you under
observation because the combined effect
of the diet and the blood low blood
pressure lowering medication is so
intense that you're going to be wiped
out you're basically going to pass out
right I wish I could tell you this
health based argument is a solid
moral argument for people to become a
hundred percent vegan but it's not I was
living in a school in China I was a
student in a school in China with a guy
who was ex-military he was the world's
most stereotypical American ex-military
man short dude huge shoulders probably
using steroids if not using steroids he
was definitely on testosterone and some
other performance-enhancing drugs some
he worked out of the same gym I worked
out and he was on blood pressure
medication every day his diet in the
United States of America consisted of
whiskey and beer and hamburgers and
french fries I saw him at the gym
everyday and I saw him eating about two
meals a day every day because we were
studying at the same school we're both
studying hard you might think this guy
was my best best friend l hang it on
that wall sorry and his he had this same
effect his blood pressure dropped so
rapidly that he was hospitalized and he
wasn't on the mcdougal diet he wasn't
even on a vegan diet he just made the
transition from the standard American
diet to the standard Chinese diet and on
the standard Chinese diet he was eating
dead animals three meals a day every day
including breakfast he was just eating
relatively tiny pieces of dead animals
instead of a whole steak or a whole
hamburger he was eating the Chinese tel
thing where you get a bunch of greasy
green vegetables tossed with some rice
or noodles or or what-have-you okay so
these outcomes are real you can look
into it for yourself to what extent the
scientific evidence now proves it - what
is that it's just quote/unquote
observational data or anecdotal data my
conclusion when I looked it up is that
it is now scientifically proven that a
vegan diet will prevent your blood
pressure from getting worse but there is
no hard and fast rule
proving that a vegan diet will make your
blood pressure better and I think the
solution to that riddle is that not all
vegan diets are equal
dr. MacDougall's diet is an
extraordinarily strict extraordinarily
healthy vegan diet and it's not
comparable to my vegan diet or what you
might call the average American vegan
diet so this this shows up consistently
in his laboratory tests or he's forcing
people to live on sweet potatoes and
vegetables and basically zero oil zero
not zero chocolate and you don't get
those dramatic results in the real world
all right so why am I making this video
is it to save somebody's life is it to
help monkey Jones avoid having a heart
attack in his 20s the moral of the story
is that you know this news is out there
for anyone who's willing to listen to it
the problem is our willingness to learn
new things as adults yeah I know a
really funny contrasting example this
just somebody I met on the Internet
and I'm guesses she looks healthy she
looks good looking at her you'd never
think she just got discharged from a
hospital ward young woman is talking to
on the Internet
she was vegetarian from birth and I
started telling this story to my
girlfriend and at that point in the
story she said oh wow I'm so jealous
like she wishes my girlfriend also
wishes she was vegetarian before and
it's like wait for the next part of the
story vegetarian from birth starts
getting hospitalized with serious
serious medical complications caused by
cholesterol at age 12 13 and 14
just cheese in her diet and I know I
mean especially if you come from like a
Hindu culture there are a lot of Hindu
some forms of Buddhism there are a lot
of people raised in a religion where
they really do regard vegetarianism as
morally adequate as ethically a superior
position to take and then Wow you know
human life is fragile just from eating
cheese three meals a day she was getting
just like monkey Jones she was getting
all of the serious coronary diseases
that are associated with elderly people
who smoke cigarettes and get no exercise
because guess what you know the people
who are around in their middle age are
the people who don't have those problems
and the people who are wiped out the
people who just whatever
constitutionally look at the draw
whatever it is the people who are killed
off easily by alcohol or bacon or
cheeseburgers or whatever it is they're
not around to complain you don't hear
those stories unless you go digging
through peer-reviewed medical literature
and start looking for them okay so look
whoever you are seeing this video maybe
monkey Jones himself is sitting around
you know listen to this monkey what you
said in your video is that the way
you're gonna cope with your high blood
pressure is by staying at home and
playing video games that's what got you
into this situation that is not what's
gonna get you out I know you think that
you can lower your blood pressure by
being comfortable and what I'm saying to
you here is if you want to be healthy
especially if it's not habitual for you
yet if you're not used to doing it yet
you're gonna have to get really really
uncomfortable I think you're gonna have
to get down and commit to like my
girlfriend giving up all the comforts of
Doritos and cheese and chicken and
cheeseburgers and whatever crap you've
been living on your life to this point
and fine switching over to
a scientific regress and robust diet at
least until you get back on an even keel
and hopefully by then hopefully it's
become a habit
hopefully you start to see the other
advantages some ethical some ecological
hopefully you commit to being a vegan
all the time because the other road
that's in front of you you already know
being dependent on medication that has
serious side effects eating a diet
that's bad for you bad for the world's
ecology bad for the animals that gotta
suffer and die every day on a concrete
floor beneath a steel sky for no reason
other than to produce food that
ultimately is poisoning you whether or
not you can recognize that without you
wanting to see that I hope you can hope
you can have a little bit of detachment
about this bad news from your doctor and
take it as an occasion to make a really
positive change